.TH HBMK 1

.SH NAME
hbmk \- Harbour Project Make

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBhbmk\fP \fB[options] [<script[s]>] <src[s][.prg|.c|.obj|.o|.rc|.res]>\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhbmk\fP is the Harbour Project make utility.

It's a wrapper to the Harbour compiler, a C compiler and linker.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-help\fP" 10
Display full help

.IP "\fB-o<outname>\fP" 10
output file name

.IP "\fB-l<libname>\fP" 10
link with <libname> library

.IP "\fB-L<libpath>\fP" 10
additional path to search for libraries

.IP "\fB-static|-shared\fP" 10
link with static/shared libs

.IP "\fB-mt|-st\fP" 10
link with multi-thread/single-thread VM

.IP "\fB-gt<name>\fP" 10
link with GT<name> GT driver, can be repeated to link
with more GTs. First one will be the default at runtime

.IP "\fB-gui|-std\fP" 10
create GUI/console executable

.IP "\fB-main=<mainfunc>\fP" 10
override the name of starting function/procedure.

.IP "\fB-fullstatic\fP" 10
link with all static libs

.IP "\fB-nulrdd[-]\fP" 10
link with nulrdd

.IP "\fB-bldf[-]\fP" 10
inherit all/no (default) flags from Harbour build

.IP "\fB-bldf=[p][c][l]\fP" 10
inherit .prg/.c/linker flags (or none) from Harbour build

.IP "\fB-[no]debug\fP" 10
add/exclude debug info

.IP "\fB-[no]map\fP" 10
create (or not) a map file

.IP "\fB-[no]strip\fP" 10
strip (no strip) binaries

.IP "\fB-[no]fmstat\fP" 10
enable/disable runtime memory statistics (gcc builds only)

.IP "\fB-[no]trace\fP" 10
show commands executed

.IP "\fB-[no]run\fP" 10
run/don't run the created executable

.IP "\fB-nohbp\fP" 10
do not process .hbp files in current directory

.IP "\fB-hbcc, -hbcmp\fP" 10
stop after creating the object files
create link/copy hbmk to hbcc/hbcmp for the same effect

.IP "\fB-hblnk\fP" 10
act as linker. Currently this is the same as -q

.IP "\fB-arch=<arch>\fP" 10
assume specific architecure. Same as HB_ARCHITECTURE envvar

.IP "\fB-comp=<comp>\fP" 10
use specific compiler. Same as HB_COMPILER envvar
Special value:
- bld: use original build settings (default on *nix)

.IP "\fB-info\fP" 10
turn on informational messages

.IP "\fB-quiet\fP" 10
suppress all screen messages

<script> can be <@script> (.hbm file), <script.hbm> or <script.hbp>.

Regular Harbour compiler options are also accepted.

Multiple -l, -L and <script> parameters are accepted.

hbmk.cfg option file in hbmk directory is always processed if it exists.
On *nix platforms ~/.harbour, /etc/harbour, <base>/etc/harbour,
<base>/etc are checked (in that order) before the hbmk directory.
The file format is the same as .hbp.

.hbp option files in current dir are automatically processed.

.hbp options (they should come in separate lines):
libs=[<libname[s]>], gt=[gtname], prgflags=[Harbour flags]
cflags=[C compiler flags], ldflags=[Linker flags], libpaths=[lib paths]
gui|mt|shared|nulrdd|debug|map|strip|run=[yes|no]
Lines starting with '#' char are ignored

Platform filters are accepted in each .hbp line and with -l options.
Filter format: {[!][<arch|comp>]}. Filters can be combined
using '&', '|' operators and grouped by parantheses.
Ex.: {win}, {gcc}, {linux|darwin}, {win&!pocc}, {(win|linux)&!owatcom}

Defaults and feature support vary by architecture/compiler.

Supported <comp> values for each supported <arch> value:
linux: gcc, gpp, owatcom, icc, mingw, mingwce
darwin: gcc
win: mingw, msvc, bcc, owatcom, pocc, cygwin, mingwce, msvc64, msvcia64, msvcce, pocc64, poccce
os2: gcc, owatcom
dos: djgpp, owatcom
bsd, hpux, sunos: gcc

.SH FILES

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.IP "\fBCCPATH\fP" 10
.IP "\fBCCPREFIX\fP" 10
.IP "\fBHB_ARCHITECTURE\fP" 10
.IP "\fBHB_COMPILER\fP" 10
.IP "\fBHB_INSTALL_PREFIX\fP" 10
.IP "\fBHB_BIN_INSTALL\fP" 10
.IP "\fBHB_INC_INSTALL\fP" 10
.IP "\fBHB_LIB_INSTALL\fP" 10
.IP "\fBHB_MT\fP" 10
.IP "\fBHB_GUI\fP" 10
.IP "\fBHB_SHARED\fP" 10
.IP "\fBHB_DEBUG\fP" 10
.IP "\fBHB_NULRDD\fP" 10
.IP "\fBHB_GT\fP" 10
.IP "\fBHB_USER_PRGFLAGS\fP" 10
.IP "\fBHB_USER_LIBS\fP" 10
.IP "\fBHB_USER_RESFLAGS\fP" 10
.IP "\fBHB_USER_CFLAGS\fP" 10
.IP "\fBHB_USER_LDFLAGS\fP" 10

.SH AUTHOR

Viktor Szakats, The Harbour Project (http://www.harbour-project.org)
